docs: Enhance documentation for device trees and kernel building on ARM and… (#29)
BredOS/wiki: development/device-trees.md

---

# Device Trees

> Device trees is a mechanism for describing hardware in Linux ARM systems, allowing the kernel to discover and configure hardware devices without changing the kernel driver code, Unlike x86 systems, where the ACPI tables  enable automatic hardware discovery and configuration, ARM systems have to change the device tree once the hardware is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device trees is a mechanism for describing hardware in ARM systems, allowing the kernel to discover and configure hardware devices without changing the kernel driver code.
Unlike x86 systems, where the ACPI tables enable automatic hardware discovery and configuration, ARM systems have to change the device tree to declare hardware changes.
```

Reviewer 2: In Linux systems it's not arm only, dtbs exist on x86 too

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device trees is a mechanism for describing hardware commonly used in ARM and RISC-V systems, allowing the kernel to discover and configure hardware devices without changing the kernel driver code.
Unlike x86 systems, where the ACPI tables enable automatic hardware discovery and configuration, most ARM systems need to have their device tree modified to declare hardware changes.
```

> ## Updating Device Trees in UEFI and Grub systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Switching Device Trees in UEFI and Grub systems
```

> Edit the grub configuration file `/etc/default/grub`, find the line that starts with `GRUB_DTB=` and add the path to the device tree file, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the grub configuration file `/etc/default/grub`.
Find the line that starts with `GRUB_DTB=` and add the path to the device tree file, for example:
```

```bash
GRUB_DTB= dtbs/rockchip/xxx.dtb

> ```

Reviewer: Noting dtb paths are relative to `/boot` is probably desired.

Reviewer 2: They are relative to /boot yes
